# Law-Enforcement-Situational-Threat-Recognition

# SUMMARY OF PROJECT
# In 2019, forty-eight law enforcement officers were killed in the line of duty due to felonious incidents. In total, 511 officers were killed feloniously in the second decade of the twenty-first century(2010-2019). In the category of non-fatal assaults in 2019 alone, 56,034 officers were assaulted, 17,188 of which suffered injuries. While in very stressful and dangerous situations, officers are often forced to make instant decisions based on rapid changes in their environment. Often, they are unable to make these decisions in enough time to avoid harm. For our project, we will produce a classification model trained and evaluated by detailed data provided by the FBI regarding all the officer injury related assaults during the time span mentioned above. This model will predict one of three different classes: no threat detected, potential non-fatal threat detected, and potential fatal threat detected. Real time inputs that our model will be looking for would come from a body camera and vehicle cameras that have computer vision classification capabilities. Predefined inputs such as time of day, time of year, location, and more would be incorporated into the machine learning system. The possible system would be on a small device on the officer’s body that has an indicator to inform the officer of a potential threat much quicker than he or she would detect it. The real world application of this machine learning model could have a large impact on officer safety, alerting the officer to danger very quickly. 

# PROJECT DETAILS
# The data gathered will be able to train the system to predict three possible outcomes to any given scenario: no injury, possible injury, or possible death. The dataset used for our system will be created using real details of past scenarios that are documented by the FBI. The model will be trained using this dataset and will then be able to predict one of the three threat levels based on the inputs. The data is being collected from the Uniform Crime Reporting Program’s Law Enforcement Officers Killed and Assaulted. This is a site published by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and updated each year. The link to the website is the following: https://ucr.fbi.gov/leoka/2019/home. The data will be scrubbed from the site and put into an excel spreadsheet and imported into the source code via a csv file. A certain percentage of the data will be reserved for evaluation purposes to validate the training predictions. After training the model, we will simulate situations with randomly selected inputs, updating the inputs and evaluating the predictions in real time. 
